>> Jafar Husain: So we've covered
subjects, we've covered Observables,
we've covered subscriptions,
we've covered schedulers,
we've pretty much covered the gamut.
Is there any other questions you guys had?
By all means, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: What do we have to do to
get the observable into JavaScript,
write our local TC39 representative?
>> Jafar Husain: I don't
think that'll work.
Realistically, I mean,
I gotta be honest with you.
Observable in JavaScript is not really
gonna make much of a difference to your
day-to-day lives.
So let's say tomorrow the committee said,
and I think this is a long shot, they
said, Observable's the best thing ever, we
need to get it into JavaScript right now.
Ask yourself this, how would it
change the way in which you coded?
>> Jafar Husain: At least the current
observable proposal has no methods.
It doesn't have map,
it doesn't have filter.
Now maybe six months from now, at the rate
the committee works, it'll have a map and
a filter method.
How's that gonna change
the way in which you code?
You're still gonna have to take
the observable in the framework.
And adapt it into the RX observable to
get access to the galaxy of methods that
are on the RX observable.
And so frankly, that's one of the reasons
why a lot of people have questioned
whether observable in the standard
is actually valuable or not.
One of the reasons why we were pursuing
it was to get it into the browser so
that the browser could take event targets
and implement them as observables instead.
Sorry, event targets are the things
with the add event list or
remove event list or.
Add event list or remove event list
unless there's a well-known crappy API.
It's a terrible API and
it's really unergonomic to use.
It also doesn't really compose well.
You've seen how awkward, remember all
that awkwardness where we had to store
the handler to the event and
then put it in?
If you try and compose event targets, you
realize that you actually need to create
a map where you're associating
event names with handlers, and
it's actually very expensive.
So that's one of the reasons why event
targets are just not
a very well designed type.
They're very expensive to compose,
vis a vis the observables which can just
return these little subscription objects.
And if you notice what's going on with
Observable or composing observables, or
composing observers and we're composing
subscriptions all at the same time.
And that's what makes
the whole thing work.
It's actually a beautiful composition
of three different types that are all
composable at the same time.
It's very much more awkward
to do that with event target.
And if you had an event target,
I think with add event list or
remove event list and you map something,
what would you be mapping, which event?
Remember, cuz it publishes a whole
bunch of different events.
So we were interested in Observable,
we still are interested in Observable as
a better event target, but at the moment,
the web platform guys are not entirely
convinced that it's a great thing.
I disagree with them, I think it's
a great thing, but that's why I think
the standardization process is
moving really slowly in this area.
Honestly, it's more a thing that
we're doing for the browser.
You folks, you got MPM, so
it's really just a couple of keys away for
you to be able to get the full
galaxy of RX operators.
I'm always surprised when developers
really care about this because I don't
think it really much matters to you.
>> Jafar Husain: Even if in
like five years we had all
the operators in our switches all
stretched it would be hard to get all
those approved through the committee.
Even if we were missing one you'd still
end up having to adapt the Observable.
So I wouldn't worry so
much about standardization.
>> Speaker 2: Wouldn't a big benefit
of standardization be that we
would have a set standard where
different libraries could
then take advantage of having-
>> Jafar Husain: For interoperability?
>> Speaker 2: Contracts email.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, yeah, I mean, but
promises, before they were standardized,
they had the interoperability spec.
And that, honestly did just as good a job
for libraries being able to interoperate.
And realistically, if we don't get
the through standardization process,
I imagine that that's exactly what
we'll end up doing with the Observable.
We'll come up with an interoperability
spec to make sure all the different
libraries can interoperate.
>> Speaker 3: Well, isn't that,
so another benefit though is just
less bits having to be sent across?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, but realistically
look at Blue Bird and how many different
methods are on Blue Bird, for
example, or the other common errors.
It's gonna be really hard to get all
those methods on JavaScript, and
there's always a trade-off between
keeping the language minimal, right?
And because JavaScript runs in some
pretty resource constrained places where,
I think,
people never thought it would run.
Embedded devices, and so putting more and
more of the standard library makes that
difficult, especially with how
incredibly useful and effective NPM is.
And so that's the trade-off that
the committee is thinking about.
It's a constant thing that standards
committees have to think about.
What belongs in a language and
what doesn't belong in a language?
It's a hard problem.